Add glossary (#56)
aranya-project/aranya-docs: pages/_glossary/glossary.md

<a name="afc"></a>**AFC**\
Aranya Fast Channels. A low-latency, high-throughput encryption engine that uses Aranya for key management and authorization. Find more details in the [AFC spec]({{ '/afc' | relative_url }}).

<a name="aranya"></a>**Aranya**\
Manages distributed data by representing state as a [graph](#graph), which contains commands and [factDBs](#factdb), that is evaluated by a [policy](#policy). Aranya includes components for evaluating policy, cryptography, storage, conflict resolution and syncing. Find more details in the [Aranya spec]({{ '/aranya-beta' | relative_url }}).

<a name="ast"></a>**AST**\
An abstract syntax tree (AST), is a tree data structure that represents code. It's used in the policy engine to parse the policy language. Learn more about the [AST data structure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree).

<a name="bandwidth"></a>**Bandwidth**\
How much data can be theoretically transferred over the network over a certain period of time. Read more about [bandwidth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandwidth_(computing)).

<a name="braid"></a>**Braid**\

> In storage, enforces deterministic ordering while merging two branches, or sets of [commands](#command), in a [graph](#graph) based on properties of the affected commands.

Reviewer: The braid algorithm is merging two DAGs or sets of commands, each of which may have multiple branches.

<a name="channel"></a>**Channel**\
An [AFC](#afc) _channel_ facilitates one-to-one communication in either a unidirectional or bidirectional manner. Both channel types use unique symmetric [AEAD](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5116) key(s); a unidirectional channel uses one key and a bidirectional channel uses two keys.

<a name="channelkeys"></a>**ChannelKeys**\
Two unique symmetric keys, (`k1`, `k2`), that enable encryption and decryption for each user in a _bidirectional_ channel. One side of the channel uses `k1` for encryption and `k2` for decryption, while the other side uses `k1` for decryption and `k2` for encryption.

<a name="cicd"></a>**CI/CD**\

> Continuous Integration and Development. A development best practice that ensures software is tested, integrated, and deliverable/deployable which each commit and pull request against the repositories.

Reviewer: CICD stands for "Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery/Deployment"

<a name="command"></a>**Command**\
An object containing new state used while evaluating a [policy](#policy).

<a name="crypto-engine"></a>**Crypto Engine**\

> Provides a set of APIs for encryption, decryption, and key authentication.

Reviewer: What about key generation? @elagergren-spideroak looping you in since you'd know how to describe the crypto engine.

<a name="effect"></a>**Effect**\
Data, as defined in a policy, that may be emitted to clients when a [command](#command) is processed.

<a name="ephemeral-session"></a>**Ephemeral Session**\

> Commands that are locally processed by a policy at some [perspective](#perspective) of the [graph](#graph) but do not persist to the graph. Read the [sessions spec]({{ '/aranya-sessions' | relative_url }}) for more details.

Reviewer: The ephemeral session only lasts as long as each Aranya daemon that's part of the session is running. Once a daemon stops/restarts, the session will no longer be available.

<a name="fact"></a>**Fact**\

> Key-value pair that is produced by processing a [command](#command).

Reviewer: Note that the key is not a crypto key

<a name="factdb"></a>**FactDB**\
Fact storage within the graph at any given command. The factDB is accessed from a perspective of the graph, therefore, its values change depending on the access point.

<a name="ffi"></a>**FFI**\
Foreign function interface. Mechanism to perform operations that are written or compiled in a different programming language. Some examples include policy code calling functions written in Rust and Rust code calling functions written in C. More details on Rust FFIs can be found in the [Rust by Example](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/std_misc/ffi.html) Book.

<a name="ffi-module"></a>**FFI Module**\

> Set of FFI operations that can be imported by a [policy](#policy).

Reviewer: Could link to the ffi section from here

<a name="ffi-schema"></a>**FFI Schema**\
Static description of the names and function signatures provided by FFI modules. This allows the [policy Compiler](#policy-compiler) to validate the FFI is being used correctly in policy code.

<a name="graph"></a>**Graph**\

> Directed acyclic graph (DAG) where the nodes are [commands](#command), which represents the total ordering of commands. Each command in the graph may contain a new version of its parent's or parents' [factDB](#factdb). Sometimes used to refer to a [team](#team).

Reviewer: "parent's or parents'" is there a better way to word this? It looks like the same word with different punctuation. What is this sentence trying to say?

<a name="idam"></a>**IdAM**\

> Identity and access management (IdAM), controls access to a resource based on the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identity and Access Management (IdAM), controls access to a resource based on the user.
```

<a name="label"></a>**Label**\

> An identifier that binds an AFC [channel](#channel) to a set of Aranya policy rules, ensuring that both channel users meet some specified criteria.

Reviewer: "ensuring that both channel users are authorized to transmit data via the channel according to rule defined by the policy"

<a name="latency"></a>**Latency**\

> Amount of time it takes data to travel from one point to another. Read more [latency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latency_(engineering)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Amount of time it takes data to travel from one point to another. Read more about [latency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Latency_(engineering)).
```
Matches bandwidth above

<a name="linear-storage"></a>**Linear Storage**\

> An implementation of the storage APIs using a file-like byte storage interface that is suitable for many different systems without making many assumptions on the underlying storage.

Reviewer: @jdygert-spok was linear storage merged in? Want to make sure we're documenting a feature that's been implemented.

Reviewer 3: yes

<a name="memory-storage"></a>**Memory Storage**\
An implementation of the storage APIs that relies on the system's global allocator. This is a simpler implementation that is meant to be easy to verify its correctness. This is mostly useful for testing purposes.

<a name="model"></a>**Model**\
Simulates [aranya](#aranya) by providing a library with functionality to construct clients, execute actions and sync. Read the [model spec]({{ '/aranya-model' | relative_url }}) for more details.

<a name="openkey"></a>**OpenKey**\
The key used to decrypt on either side of a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="openonlykey"></a>**OpenOnlyKey**\
The key used by the side that decrypts in a _unidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="perspective"></a>**Perspective**\
In storage, a version of the [graph](#graph) from a specific [command](#command), or point-in-time.

<a name="policy"></a>**Policy**\

> Defines rules for evaluating [actions](#action) to publish commands on the graph, resulting in effects emitted to [Aranya](#aranya) clients. More information on the Aranya Policy Language can be found in the [specification]({{ '/policy-language-v1' | relative_url }}).

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be v2? We should link to the latest, and it will refer to previous versions on its page

> Defines rules for evaluating [actions](#action) to publish commands on the graph, resulting in effects emitted to [Aranya](#aranya) clients. More information on the Aranya Policy Language can be found in the [specification]({{ '/policy-language-v2' | relative_url }}).

Reviewer: Let's link the the `#effect` section from here

<a name="policy-compiler"></a>**Policy Compiler**\

> Compiles policy code into a module to be consumed by the policy VM.

Reviewer: Let's link to the policy VM section from here.

<a name="policy-document"></a>**Policy Document**\
Markdown file that describes and implements the objects and operations used to create, update, and delete state, including a [graph](#graph) and [factDB](#factdb).

<a name="policy-engine"></a>**Policy Engine**\
An implementation used as part of [Aranya](#aranya) client state to store and retrieve policies.

<a name="policy-module"></a>**Policy Module**\
Compiled policy code.

<a name="policy-vm"></a>**Policy VM**\
Policy virtual machine. Consumes a compiled policy module to execute and perform policy decisions.

<a name="quic"></a>**QUIC**\

> A general-purpose transport layer network protocol, that utilizes several multiplexed [UDP](#udp) connections. Read more about the [QUIC protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QUIC).

Reviewer: I'd mention that QUIC encrypts traffic with TLS

<a name="rbac"></a>**RBAC**\

> Role-based access control. A version of Identity Access Management that uses roles to grant a user or group of users' permission(s) to interact with a [graph](#graph).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Role-based access control. A version of Identity and Access Management that uses roles to grant a user or group of users permission(s) to interact with a [graph](#graph).
```

<a name="role"></a>**Role**\

> Defines capabilities a user or group of users may be assigned to perform operations in a policy that uses an RBAC system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines capabilities a user or group of users may be assigned to perform operations in a policy that uses an [RBAC](#rbac) system.
```
It's right above, but just for consistency

<a name="rtt"></a>**RTT**\

> Round-trip time. How long it takes data to travel from one point to another and back. Read more [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Round-trip_delay).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Round-trip time. How long it takes data to travel from one point to another and back. Read more about [round-trip delay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Round-trip_delay).
```

<a name="sealkey"></a>**SealKey**\
The key used to encrypt on either side of a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="sealonlykey"></a>**SealOnlyKey**\
The key used by the side that encrypts in a _unidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="segment"></a>**Segment**\
In storage, a nonempty sequence of [commands](#command) that have been persisted to the graph.

<a name="sync"></a>**Sync**\
Implementations that allow remote [Aranya](#aranya) clients to share state. More details on syncing in Aranya can be found in the [specification]({{ '/sync' | relative_url }}).

<a name="tcp"></a>**TCP**\
Transmission Control Protocol. Transport that supports resending dropped packets. Read more [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol).

<a name="team"></a>**Team**\

> A group of users who interact over a graph. Sometimes used interchangeably with graph as a team is necessarily associated with a single graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A group of users who interact over a [graph](#graph). Sometimes used interchangeably with graph as a team is necessarily associated with a single graph.
```

<a name="throughput"></a>**Throughput**\
The amount of data that can actually be transferred over the network over a certain period of time. This is a measurement rather than a theoretical estimate. Read more [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_throughput).

<a name="ttl"></a>**TTL**\
Time to live. This value is set to the number of hops a packet should exist on the network before it is dropped. Read more [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_to_live).

<a name="udp"></a>**UDP**\

> User Datagram Protocol. Simple transport. Read more [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Datagram_Protocol).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User Datagram Protocol. A simpler transport protocol than [TCP](#tcp) that prioritizes speed over reliability. Read more about [UDP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Datagram_Protocol).
```

<a name="uds"></a>**UDS**\

> Unix domain socket. An endpoint for exchanging data. Read more [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_domain_socket).

Reviewer 2: See above about standardizing "Read more"

> <a name="uds"></a>**UDS**\

Reviewer: UDS is not a commonly used acronym for unix domain sockets.

Author: That may be, but we use the acronym throughout our specs and codebase.

Reviewer: True, I suppose it's okay to have it in the glossary as long as it's used elsewhere. We really shouldn't be using that acronym in specs or code docs. Using the acronym would be okay in source code, since it's common to abbreviate words in variables names, structs, function names, etc. The code docs would provide enough context to understand what the abbreviated code meant.

# Glossary

> ## Section

Reviewer 4: Could maybe merge in the definitions from the overview page: https://aranya-project.github.io/aranya-docs/overview/#glossary and then remove that section from overview.

Author: I think that would be good, some of these are more specific and work better.

<a name="afc"></a>**AFC**\
Aranya Fast Channels. A low-latency, high-throughput encryption engine that uses Aranya for key management and authorization. Find more details in the [AFC spec]({{ '/afc' | relative_url }}).

<a name="aranya"></a>**Aranya**\
Manages distributed data by representing state as a [graph](#graph), which contains commands and [factDBs](#factdb), that is evaluated by a [policy](#policy). Aranya includes components for evaluating policy, cryptography, storage, conflict resolution and syncing. Find more details in the [Aranya spec]({{ '/aranya-beta' | relative_url }}).

<a name="ast"></a>**AST**\
An abstract syntax tree (AST), is a tree data structure that represents code. It's used in the policy engine to parse the policy language. Learn more about the [AST data structure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree).

<a name="bandwidth"></a>**Bandwidth**\
How much data can be theoretically transferred over the network over a certain period of time. Read more about [bandwidth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandwidth_(computing)).

<a name="braid"></a>**Braid**\

> The braid algorithm enforces deterministic ordering while merging two [DAG](#dag)s, or sets of [commands](#command), each may have multiple branches.

Author: Good catch

<a name="channel"></a>**Channel**\
An [AFC](#afc) _channel_ facilitates one-to-one communication in either a unidirectional or bidirectional manner. Both channel types use unique symmetric [AEAD](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5116) key(s). A unidirectional channel uses one key to function as the seal key on one side, and the open key on the other side. While a bidirectional channel uses two unique symmetric keys as open and seal keys on both side, allowing it to secure returned data with a unique key.

<a name="channelkeys"></a>**ChannelKeys**\
Two unique symmetric keys, (`k1`, `k2`), that enable encryption and decryption for each user in a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel). One side of the channel uses `k1` for encryption and `k2` for decryption, while the other side uses `k1` for decryption and `k2` for encryption.

<a name="cicd"></a>**CI/CD**\
Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery. A development best practice that ensures software is tested, integrated, and deliverable/deployable which each commit and pull request against the repositories. Read more about [CICD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CI/CD).

<a name="command"></a>**Command**\

> An object containing new state used while evaluating a [policy](#policy).

Reviewer 5: Might want to also state the relationship between commands and actions here or something. I think this gets the idea across if you have context, but might benefit from a bit more info. Even just a bit more like the `effect` definition could help.

<a name="crypto-engine"></a>**Crypto Engine**\
Provides a set of APIs for encryption, decryption, and key authentication.

<a name="dag"></a>**DAG**\
Directed Acyclic Graph. We use this term interchangeably with the [Graph](#graph). Read more about [directed acyclic graphs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph).

<a name="effect"></a>**Effect**\
Data, as defined in a policy, that may be emitted to clients when a [command](#command) is processed.

<a name="ephemeral-session"></a>**Ephemeral Session**\
In ephemeral sessions, [commands](#command) are locally processed by a policy but do not persist to the [graph](#graph). An ephemeral session only lasts as long as the lifetime of the Aranya daemon that it's running in. Once a daemon stops/restarts, the session will no longer be available. Read the [sessions]({{ '/aranya-sessions' | relative_url }}) spec for more details.

<a name="fact"></a>**Fact**\
[Key-value pair](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name%E2%80%93value_pair) that is produced by processing a [command](#command).

<a name="factdb"></a>**FactDB**\

> Fact storage within the graph at any given command. The factDB is accessed from a perspective of the graph, therefore, its values change depending on the access point.

Reviewer 5: link perspective and graph definitions. And "access point" is unclear here, the perspective definition I think approached it well.

<a name="linear-storage"></a>**Linear Storage**\
An implementation of the storage APIs using a file-like byte storage interface that is suitable for many different systems without making many assumptions on the underlying storage.

<a name="memory-storage"></a>**Memory Storage**\
An implementation of the storage APIs that relies on the system's global allocator. This is a simpler implementation that is meant to be easy to verify its correctness. This is mostly useful for testing purposes.

<a name="model"></a>**Model**\
Simulates [aranya](#aranya) by providing a library with functionality to construct clients, execute actions and sync. Read the [model spec]({{ '/aranya-model' | relative_url }}) for more details.

<a name="openkey"></a>**OpenKey**\
The key used to decrypt on either side of a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="openonlykey"></a>**OpenOnlyKey**\
The key used by the side that decrypts in a _unidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="perspective"></a>**Perspective**\
In storage, a version of the [graph](#graph) from a specific [command](#command), or point-in-time.

<a name="policy"></a>**Policy**\

> Defines rules for evaluating [actions](#action) to publish commands on the graph, resulting in [effects](#effect) emitted to [Aranya](#aranya) clients. More information on the Aranya Policy Language can be found in the [specification]({{ '/policy-language-v2' | relative_url }}).

Reviewer 5: might be good to mention that this is executing business logic defined in the policy or something.

<a name="aranya"></a>**Aranya**\
Manages distributed data by representing state as a [graph](#graph), which contains commands and [factDBs](#factdb), that is evaluated by a [policy](#policy). Aranya includes components for evaluating policy, cryptography, storage, conflict resolution and syncing. Find more details in the [Aranya spec]({{ '/aranya-beta' | relative_url }}).

<a name="ast"></a>**AST**\
An abstract syntax tree (AST), is a tree data structure that represents code. It's used in the policy engine to parse the policy language. Learn more about the [AST data structure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree).

<a name="audit-monitoring"></a>**Audit and Monitoring**\
Regularly review and monitor activities and detect suspicious behavior. Use network monitoring tools to track access patterns and machine learning algorithms to detect anomalies.

<a name="bandwidth"></a>**Bandwidth**\
How much data can be theoretically transferred over the network over a certain period of time. Read more about [bandwidth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandwidth_(computing)).

<a name="channel"></a>**Channel**\

> An [AFC](#afc) _channel_ facilitates one-to-one communication in either a unidirectional or bidirectional manner. Both channel types use unique symmetric [AEAD](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5116) key(s). A unidirectional channel uses one key to function as the seal key on one side, and the open key on the other side. While a bidirectional channel uses two unique symmetric keys as open and seal keys on both side, allowing it to secure returned data with a unique key.

Reviewer 4: sp / side / sides
```suggestion
An [AFC](#afc) _channel_ facilitates one-to-one communication in either a unidirectional or bidirectional manner. Both channel types use unique symmetric [AEAD](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5116) key(s). A unidirectional channel uses one key to function as the seal key on one side, and the open key on the other side. While a bidirectional channel uses two unique symmetric keys as open and seal keys on both sides, allowing it to secure returned data with a unique key.
```

<a name="channelkeys"></a>**ChannelKeys**\

> Two unique symmetric keys, (`k1`, `k2`), that enable encryption and decryption for each user in a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel). One side of the channel uses `k1` for encryption and `k2` for decryption, while the other side uses `k1` for decryption and `k2` for encryption.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Two unique symmetric keys, (`k1`, `k2`), that enable encryption and decryption for each device in a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel). One side of the channel uses `k1` for encryption and `k2` for decryption, while the other side uses `k1` for decryption and `k2` for encryption.
```

<a name="cicd"></a>**CI/CD**\

> Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery. A development best practice that ensures software is tested, integrated, and deliverable/deployable which each commit and pull request against the repositories. Read more about [CICD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CI/CD).

Reviewer 4: Not entirely sure on the word that was meant to be used, but sp / "deployable _which_ each" / with or at ?

<a name="command"></a>**Command**\

> Instruction given by an device to perform a specific task. It is the object that is sent and stored to denote individual actions by different devices, as defined possible by the [policy](#policy). For example, it could be to add an entity to a team, whereby the command object itself indicates the action that was performed and other necessary information, such as the credentials of the newly added entity.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Instruction given by a device to perform a specific task. It is the object that is sent and stored to denote individual actions by different devices, as defined possible by the [policy](#policy). For example, it could be to add an entity to a team, whereby the command object itself indicates the action that was performed and other necessary information, such as the credentials of the newly added entity.
```

<a name="crypto-engine"></a>**Crypto Engine**\
Provides a set of APIs for encryption, decryption, and key authentication.

<a name="dag"></a>**DAG**\
Directed Acyclic Graph. We use this term interchangeably with the [Graph](#graph). Read more about [directed acyclic graphs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph).

<a name="device"></a>**Device**\

> Represents an instance and has an identity associated to it, as well as other crypto material which govern how it behaves on the endpoint. An entity could be used to describe a specific user on the platform.

Reviewer 4: This one is a little confusing for me, so `entity` is essentially a device+identity+crypto materials. So, entity is a synonym in this case, right? The second sentence kind of seems disjointed and almost like a separate definition. 

```suggestion
Represents an instance and has an identity associated to it, as well as other crypto material which govern how it behaves on the endpoint. A device could be used to describe a specific entity on the platform.
```

Author: Honestly, I thing we just remove the entity bit.

<a name="fact"></a>**Fact**\
[Key-value pair](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Name%E2%80%93value_pair) that is produced by processing a [command](#command).

<a name="factdb"></a>**FactDB**\
Fact storage within the graph at any given command. The factDB is accessed from a [perspective](#perspective) of the [graph](#graph), therefore, its values change depending on the specific [command](#command) or point-in-time the graph is evaluated.

<a name="ffi"></a>**FFI**\
Foreign function interface. Mechanism to perform operations that are written or compiled in a different programming language. Some examples include policy code calling functions written in Rust and Rust code calling functions written in C. More details on Rust FFIs can be found in the [Rust by Example](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/std_misc/ffi.html) Book.

<a name="ffi-module"></a>**FFI Module**\
Set of [FFI](#ffi) operations that can be imported by a [policy](#policy).

<a name="ffi-schema"></a>**FFI Schema**\

> Static description of the names and function signatures provided by [FFI modules](#ffi-module). This allows the [policy Compiler](#policy-compiler) to validate the FFI is being used correctly in policy code.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Static description of the names and function signatures provided by [FFI modules](#ffi-module). This allows the [policy compiler](#policy-compiler) to validate the FFI is being used correctly in policy code.
```

<a name="graph"></a>**Graph**\

> Directed acyclic graph (DAG) where the nodes are [commands](#command), which represents the total ordering of commands. Each command in the graph may contain a new version of its parent's [factDB](#factdb), sometimes refer to as a [team](#team). Each command is connected by a line to the command that occurred immediately before it, as seen from the device's local state.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Directed acyclic graph (DAG) where the nodes are [commands](#command), which represents the total ordering of commands. Each command in the graph may contain a new version of its parent's [factDB](#factdb) and is connected by a line to the command that occurred immediately before it, as seen from the device's local state.
```

I don't think the graph=team thing is that important and could be removed. If it is a helpful thing to point out, we should rearrange where we say it in this definition because it sounds like it's referring to the factDB as a team.

<a name="idam"></a>**IdAM**\

> Identity and Access Management (IdAM), controls access to a resource based on the user. Read more about [Identity and Access Management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_and_access_management).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Identity and Access Management (IdAM), controls access to a resource based on the device. Read more about [Identity and Access Management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_and_access_management).
```

<a name="Instance"></a>**Instance**\
Individual deployment of the Aranya software. A single endpoint can have one or many instances.

<a name="label"></a>**Label**\

> An identifier that binds an AFC [channel](#channel) to a set of Aranya policy rules, ensuring that both channel users are authorized to transmit data via the channel according to rule defined by the policy.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An identifier that binds an AFC [channel](#channel) to a set of Aranya policy rules, ensuring the devices on either side of the channel are authorized to transmit data via the channel according to rules defined by the policy.
```

<a name="memory-storage"></a>**Memory Storage**\
An implementation of the storage APIs that relies on the system's global allocator. This is a simpler implementation that is meant to be easy to verify its correctness. This is mostly useful for testing purposes.

<a name="model"></a>**Model**\
Simulates [aranya](#aranya) by providing a library with functionality to construct clients, execute actions and sync. Read the [model spec]({{ '/aranya-model' | relative_url }}) for more details.

<a name="openkey"></a>**OpenKey**\
The key used to decrypt on either side of a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="openonlykey"></a>**OpenOnlyKey**\
The key used by the side that decrypts in a _unidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="peer-to-peer"></a>**Peer to Peer**\
Allows computers to share access by acting as a server for each other.

<a name="perspective"></a>**Perspective**\
In storage, a version of the [graph](#graph) from a specific [command](#command), or point-in-time.

<a name="policy"></a>**Policy**\

> Defines rules for evaluating [actions](#action) to publish [commands](#command) on the [graph](#graph), resulting in [effects](#effect) emitted to [Aranya](#aranya) clients. The policy can be thought of as the execution and validation of business logic in Aranya. More information on the Aranya _Policy_ _Language_ can be found in the [specification]({{ '/policy-language-v2' | relative_url }}).

Reviewer 4: why are we italicizing `Policy Language`?

<a name="policy-compiler"></a>**Policy Compiler**\
Compiles policy code into a module to be consumed by the [policy VM](policy-vm).

<a name="policy-document"></a>**Policy Document**\
Markdown file that describes and implements the objects and operations used to create, update, and delete state, including a [graph](#graph) and [factDB](#factdb).

<a name="policy-engine"></a>**Policy Engine**\
An implementation used as part of [Aranya](#aranya) client state to store and retrieve policies.

<a name="policy-module"></a>**Policy Module**\
A policy module consists of compiled policy code.

<a name="policy-vm"></a>**Policy VM**\
Policy virtual machine. Consumes a compiled policy module to execute and perform policy decisions.

<a name="quic"></a>**QUIC**\
A general-purpose transport layer network protocol, that utilizes several multiplexed [UDP](#udp) connections and encrypts traffic with TLS. Read more about the [QUIC protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QUIC).

<a name="rbac"></a>**RBAC**\

> Role-based access control. A version of Identity Access and Management that uses roles to grant a user or group of users permission(s) to interact with a [graph](#graph).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Role-based access control. A version of Identity Access and Management that uses roles to grant a device or group of devices permission(s) to interact with a [graph](#graph).
```

<a name="revocation"></a>**Revocation**\
Removal of access to a specific data set.

<a name="role"></a>**Role**\

> Defines capabilities a user or group of users may be assigned to perform operations in a policy that uses an [RBAC](#rbac) system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Defines capabilities a device or group of devices may be assigned to perform operations in a policy that uses an [RBAC](#rbac) system.
```

<a name="rtt"></a>**RTT**\
Round-trip time. How long it takes data to travel from one point to another and back. Read more about [round-trip delay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Round-trip_delay).

<a name="sealkey"></a>**SealKey**\
The key used to encrypt on either side of a _bidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="sealonlykey"></a>**SealOnlyKey**\
The key used by the side that encrypts in a _unidirectional_ [channel](#channel).

<a name="segment"></a>**Segment**\

> In storage, a nonempty sequence of [commands](#command) that have been persisted to the graph.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In storage, a nonempty sequence of [commands](#command) that has been persisted to the graph.
```

<a name="segregation-of-duties"></a>**Segregation of Duties**\
Responsibilities should be distributed among different individuals to prevent fraud or error. This is especially important in mesh networks, where one error can have significant consequences.

<a name="shm"></a>**Shm**\
Shared memory or shared local memory allows processes to communicate information by sharing a region of memory. It's used to store channel keys for ephemeral sessions and APS channels in Aranya.

<a name="state"></a>**State**\
All the information that defines how the software platform is currently functioning, how it can change, and how it should behave in different scenarios.

<a name="sync"></a>**Sync**\
Implementations that allow remote [Aranya](#aranya) clients to share state. More details on syncing in Aranya can be found in the [sync]({{ '/sync' | relative_url }}) specification.

<a name="tcp"></a>**TCP**\
Transmission Control Protocol. Transport that supports resending dropped packets. Read more about [tcp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol).

<a name="team"></a>**Team**\

> A group of users who interact over a [graph](#graph). Sometimes used interchangeably with graph, as a team is associated with a single graph.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A group of devices that interact over a [graph](#graph). Sometimes used interchangeably with graph, as a team is associated with a single graph.
```

<a name="throughput"></a>**Throughput**\
The amount of data that can actually be transferred over the network over a certain period of time. This is a measurement rather than a theoretical estimate. Read more about [throughput](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_throughput).

<a name="ttl"></a>**TTL**\
Time to live. This value is set to the number of hops a packet should exist on the network before it is dropped. Read more about [ttl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_to_live).

<a name="udp"></a>**User Datagram Protocol (UDP)**\
A simple connectionless protocol that prioritizes speed over error checking and correction. Read more about [udp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_Datagram_Protocol).

<a name="uds"></a>**UDS**\
Unix domain socket. An endpoint for exchanging data. Read more about [UDS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_domain_socket).

<a name="weave"></a>**Weave**\

> The weave algorithm enforces deterministic ordering while merging two [DAG](#dag)s, or sets of [commands](#command), each may have multiple branches.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The weave algorithm enforces deterministic ordering while merging two [DAG](#dag)s, or sets of [commands](#command), while each may have multiple branches.
```
? not sure on the suggestion, but the wording is a little weird here, no?

Author: I'm just going to chop off the last bit.

<a name="graph"></a>**Graph**\
Directed acyclic graph (DAG) where the nodes are [commands](#command), which represents the total ordering of commands. Each command in the graph may contain a new version of its parent's [factDB](#factdb), sometimes refer to as a [team](#team). Each command is connected by a line to the command that occurred immediately before it, as seen from the device's local state.

<a name="idam"></a>**Identity and Access Management (IdAM)**\

> Identity and Access Management, controls access to a resource based on the user. Read more about [Identity and Access Management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_and_access_management).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A framework for controlling access to a resource based on the identity of a user. Read more about [Identity and Access Management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_and_access_management).
